@document.meta
title: blockers
description: things that are still causing hangups towards our better goal of progress.
authors: Bailey Bjornstad | ursa-major
categories: nightowl.nvim
created: 2023-08-07
updated: 2023-08-09
version: 1.1.1
@end

* Nightowl.nvim
  the following document outlines the major pieces of code, implementation, or
  other work that is needed to get life back on the track that it was supposed
  to be on. Neovim is a unique program in my arsenal, and unfortunately any
  difficulties I presently have with the configuration itself is going to cause
  issues with other things that I am also trying to do that involve neovim
  somehow. This is the motivation to create this document.

** Critical Blockers
   The folliwng items are critical to the mission. They need to be fixed as soon
   as possible, otherwise standard essential editing functions are missing.

*** (-) Neorg and Treesitter do not seem to be cooperating.
    I am not sure what the issue is here, it seems like whenever I backspace in
    a certain pattern while in insert mode, then treesitter flips out and throws
    some gnarly errors.

    Update 2023-08-09: this is mostly fixed. debugging left to do, but no errors
    on startup and everything looks like it is working correctly.

*** (-) Completion Menu Icons
    This has been a thorny issue for too long at this point, and the lspkind
    wiki is not helpful to fixing this problem. Basically we have a timing
    mismatch because lspkind is not found when needed, despite the fact that the
    package is loaded within a separate opts function.

    update 2023-08-09: this is also mostly fixed, and generally cmp is working
    better after disabling the automenu and forcing explicit user activation
    with the tab or c-space keys.

*** (x) Neorg keybindings
    Neorg is missing important keybindings to any of the convenience functions
    that are provided.
*** (-) edgy.nvim fixes
    unfortunately, edgy was not working correctly before today. luckily, it is
    working now more correctly although there's still a few problematic spots of
    behavior that should be fixed in the long run.
** Problematic Blockers
   These items are not as critical as the above, but they still are important
   to improving the overall experience to the point of usability.

** Unimplemented Features
   These items are not necessarily critical to being able to edit files in an
   appropriate manner, but are important because they have features and details
   that I would like to have in nightowl.nvim but are not yet implemented due to
   hangups with other pieces that are holding this mission together.

*** ( ) dropbar.nvim navigation in breadcrumbs menus
    the basic idea behind this part is that when we are in a dropbar menu,
    normally activated with `g_` as a normal mode mapping, we would like a few
    additional ways to move between dropbar windows. In particular, tab and
    shift-tab should move to next and previous windows.
