* Neovim: ursa-neovim
** Author: ursa-major
   Bailey Bjornstad, bailey.bjornstad@fastmail.com, bailey@bjornstad.dev
** Description:
   My personal neovim configuration, written in lua and built on the back of the great
   LazyVim starting template. For rationale on why I chose to go with a base template
   instead of starting from scratch, see the README file.

* TODO BUGFIXING:
  We are currently running into quite a few configuration errors that are causing
  hangups in the Keymappings configuration. We need to fix these before we can move on
  to bigger features, if we even want them at this point.
  - (x) Determine why the n and v keys seem to be rebound to something other than their
        standard normal and visual modes. This is likely the root of all errors.
  - (x) Determine why the <localleader> key is not being obeyed properly.
  - (x) Determine why the semicolon key is not being obeyed properly, despite the fact
        that other set keymappings in the lazyvim fashion seem to be functional.

* Main Milestones Needed
  The main milestones needed to complete this project are:
  - (-) Finish keymappings
  - (x) Finish autocommands
  - (x) Expose recording message somewhere that is more visible than it currently is,
        since I can't tell if I'm actually recording macros. Maybe also start using a
        different keybind?
  - ( ) Write documentation for all important functions, followed by remaining
        functions.
  - (x) Clean up the codebase with generally accepted idiomatic lua conventions in mind.

* Remaining Massive Tasks:
  Debugging of any components that are still acting finnicky is going to be the big
  thing.


** TODO fix nvim-cmp completion menu keybindings
   Still having a minor bit of trouble with the submenu on ;, although that may
   not be the case depending on how additional testing fairs.

** TODO Move to different dashboard function
   glepnir's rendition. In particular, seems more performant.

** TODO fix the completion menu settings
   - ( ) Want the LSP settings back to normal.
   - (x) Want to make sure codicons are showing up correctly
     - Most of the time this is happening, but for some reason in lua files the
       completion menu does not show the correct thing.
   - ( ) make sure color and borders remain, along with nice Noice formatting for all of
         the important parts.
A
